---
layout: post
title: Peppy
tagline: A small p2p spec.
---

A small p2p spec.

- Chapter [1](#chapter-1-the-peppy-file)/[2](#chapter-2-requesting-from-sources)

## Chapter 1 -- The `.peppy` file

### Overview

A `.peppy` file is the outline of tracker links and general information about the download. This could be seen as being similar to a `.torrent` file.

The specification for this file is based upon the [superconf](https://github.com/owez/superconf) miniture configuration file format, using a `:` (colon) seperator for seperating items. This means that the following:

```none
# a comment! you may also do inline comments

my_key:my_value
my_list:is:this:a:list\: no
```

Would translate into the following JSON:

```json
{
    "my_key": "my_value",
    "my_list": ["is", "this", "a", "list: no"]
}
```

This specification allows a simple-to-parse `.peppy` file format which can be implemented in many languages with **no dependencies**.

### Specification of the `.peppy` file

Here is the specification:

```none
# sources to download from, equivalent to trackers
s:udp\://my-source.com:udp\://other-source.net

# name of download
n:my-download

# blake3 checksum of download, hex-encoded
b3:718b749f12a61257438b2ea6643555fd995001c9d9ff84764f93f82610a780f2
```

An example of this specification in the real-world could look like:

```none
s:usp\://sourcey.biz
n:my-download
b3:718b749f12a61257438b2ea6643555fd995001c9d9ff84764f93f82610a780f2
```

As you can see, the headings/keys for each value are small and the only separation you have are newlines (which count as only one character). The purpose of this is to reduce character overhead -- though in order to allow expandability of future checksum hashes, `blake3` is shortened to `b3` instead of something like `c` for "checksum".

## Chapter 2: Requesting from sources

To get download information from a source (e.g. a "tracker" in the torrent universe) is a simple procedure, requiring *only* a UDP networking stack.

This is due to a desire for simplicity and compactness when dealing with file downloads as a http library may only be used for sending the occasional request to a source, producing undesired bulk.

### Connect id

Before sending any requests to the source, please generate a random "connect id" (this *doesn't* have to be cryptographically secure) to allow the source to properly identify you. A connect id should be a random 32-bit (signed) integer, so for example:

- `458349385`
- `-34945345349`

### Peppy id

A "peppy id" or in a request, `peppy_id` is a 64-bit (signed) *magic constant* representing the peppy protocol id. This is also seen in torrenting.

The peppy id is always:

```none
0x707070
```

### Announcing yourself

Once you have your [connect id](#connect-id), you may build a request to a source. As stated previously, a connect request consists of the following data:

```none
Offset  Size            Name        Value
0       64-bit integer  peppy_id    0x707070  // our peppy id
8       32-bit integer  action      0         // connect
12      32-bit integer  connect_id            // our connect id
16
```

And the source should respond with:

```none
Offset  Size            Name         Value
0       32-bit integer  action       0        // connect
4       32-bit integer  connect_id            // our connect id
8       64-bit integer  download_id           // new download id
16
```

The next steps you should take once recieving the response is:

1. Ensure the response is exactly 16 bytes
2. Compare the `connect_id` it provided with yours
3. Ensure the action is set to `0`, indicating a new connection

Once these checks are positive, you may store the `download_id`, which indicates the unique "session" you have just made with the source.

### Coming soon

More of this is coming soon..